OpenCV is a cross-platform library using which we can develop real-time computer vision applications.
 It mainly focuses on image processing, video capture and analysis including features like face detection 
and object detection. In this tutorial, we explain how you can use OpenCV in your applications.
OpenCV (Open Source Computer Vision Library) is a library of programming functions mainly
 aimed at real-time computer vision.[1] Originally developed by Intel, 
it was later supported by Willow Garage then Itseez (which was later acquired by Intel[2]). 
The library is cross-platform and free for use under the open-source Apache 2 License. Starting with 2011,

 OpenCV features GPU acceleration for real-time operations.[3]
OpenCV (Open Source Computer Vision Library) is an open source computer 
vision and machine learning software library. OpenCV was built to provide
 a common infrastructure for computer vision applications and to accelerate 
the use of machine perception in the commercial products. Being a BSD-licensed product, 
OpenCV makes it easy for businesses to utilize and modify the code.

The library has more than 2500 optimized algorithms,
 which includes a comprehensive set of both classic and state-of-the-art computer
 vision and machine learning algorithms. These algorithms can be used to detect and 
recognize faces, identify objects, classify human actions in videos, track camera movements, 
track moving objects, extract 3D models of objects, produce 3D point clouds from stereo cameras, 
stitch images together to produce a high resolution image of an entire scene, find similar images
 from an image database, remove red eyes from images taken using flash, follow eye movements,
 recognize scenery and establish markers to overlay it with augmented reality, etc.
 OpenCV has more than 47 thousand people of user community and estimated number of
 downloads exceeding 18 million. The library is used extensively in companies,
 research groups and by governmental bodies.